---
title: Misfits
type: flash-fiction
---

The meal was cold as hell - unsurprising, given that we were the last table to be served in the grand reception hall. I picked half-heartedly at the limp beans and boned chicken drowned in a puddle of congealed gravy. Looking around the sprawling room at the odd assortment of politicians and port workers, I wondered if it had been a mistake flying in to attend my brother's wedding. He and his new bride were making the rounds through the red sea of faces, shaking hands with sleazy sunburnt statesmen and their accessory wives. Perhaps sensing my distaste, my husband caught my eye and offered a resigned smile from across the table.

It was through some odd choice that he and I had been separated from the rest of my family, who were seated just a table over. In our place, a stranger had been inserted, a lone wolf seated next to grandma, making trite conversation and rolling his eyes whenever she looked away. It was clear the prick abhorred his seating relegation as much as me, and I considered offering a trade before deciding it best not to disturb the delicately choreographed arrangement. Still I couldn't help but think that an extra chair would have easily been accommodated at the large, round table.

Instead, we had been seated next to the honorable judge something-or-other and his chatty wife. The two had started with the typical trivialities, though it didn't take long for the judge to disengage, leaving his wife to divulge stories of their kids. She admitted to downing an espresso martini before dinner and confided that she was certain Adderall had made her son skinny. The judge meanwhile had turned his back to us so he could converse with a flush-faced drunk on his other side. The two guffawed at their own unfunny jokes and spoke loudly about the looks of the drunk's date. "I can't wait to take her home!" the blowhard boasted, as if he were about to drive a new car off the lot. I watched as she pushed food around on her plate, never once raising her eyes to meet the ravenous gaze of the men.

The taste of acid rose in the back of my throat, and I thought I might run off to vomit up what little I had eaten when I felt the sharp slap of a hand on my back. It was my brother. He and his new wife looked over the table, their faces aglow from the attention of their guests. "I hope y'all are enjoying yourselves," he yelled over the din of the hall. "This was our table of misfits, so it's good to see you getting along." He laughed for himself and moved on to the next table, his bride trailing behind.

I suddenly felt like a square peg in a city full of round holes and roundabout people. Sure, I myself had once grown up here - had called it my home even - and yet I wondered whether the charm offered by the Holy City had been contingent on me smoothing my odd edges and dulling myself enough to fit in. Around the room's periphery, portraits of apathetic old men hung high on the walls, a white-haired army clad in stiff suits and disdainful scowls that left me feeling awfully cornered.

I was seeing red, thick as blood, when the room fell suddenly quiet. The newlyweds were preparing to cut into the wedding cake, a shining steel knife clutched in their joined fists. I felt my husband's hand come to rest on mine. The bewildered look on his face made me realize then that I was growling and loudly at that, like a feral dog. The judge had seen fit to return his attention to me, his eyes begging for an explanation. I pushed away the macabre meal on my plate. "Guess I'm hungry for cake," I muttered.
