---
title: Doorjam
type: allegorical-fiction
---

It was an unusually hot day in autumn when the weight of the old pantry door led its own hinges to buckle and break. The swollen slab sat staunchly in place, though I struggled for weeks to remove it. The door's edges clutched at the adjoining frame so tightly there was no room to budge nor moment to breathe. I considered taking an axe to the damn thing - how satisfying it would have been to swing the sharp slick iron and splinter that stubborn shit! — but its face was something to be admired. An ornate fresco was puckered among the grooves and crags of the facade, the stunningly intricate carvings of some family carpenter long since passed. Miniature scenes stretched between the knots and whorls — far-off eagles frozen in flight, rugged frontiersman poised above a pristine vista of rolling hills and towering pine, a stalwart ship riding an insatiable sea. How could I live with destroying such beauty?

However by winter it was deemed a lost cause. Try as I might, I negotiated not one inch from the obstinate piece of oak. It came to be a brick in the wall rather than a door the way that it stood so cemented and steadfast. With each new day, I examined each detail of its sublime scenery — the number of boxcars snaking through a rocky crevasse, the astral trails of fireworks above a starlit cityscape, the forlorn face of a stately figurehead mounted on a ship's bow. And yet I came to hear the scratches of vermin claws dancing inside the sealed chamber. A cacophony of scuffs and scrapes littered the nights as the rats reveled in this misfortune, screeching as they squabbled over sleeves of saltines. The sounds of their ceaseless savagery echoed through the floorboards of the house and left my nights sleepless and strained. All the while those mindless beasts paid no heed to the festering piles of filth at their feet.

Come spring, the whole house stunk of shit and rot, but by then I had grown too accustomed to the stench to even realize. Those noxious fumes had anchored in my lungs. Their poisons pounded like mortars in my heart and weakened my weary mind. My eyes grew swollen and red, agitated from a relentless stream of grey tears that trickled down my face. My shallow bouts of sleep became riddled with fitful dreams of drowning, and I would sometimes half wake to find myself out of bed and standing at the pantry door. In the darkness my hands would press their way along that extravagant tapestry trapped in time and timber — a column of smoke rising above a regal steamboat, a glacier cascading between snow-capped peaks, waves caressing a moonlit shore - and my fingertips, splintered and bloody, tapped in time with the frantic footsteps behind the door. Lazily I would hum some half-forgotten anthem until the grace of slumber took me once again like a castaway swallowed by the insatiable sea.

One crisp summer night I dreamt of sea foam on my skin and sun on my face. With a start I woke to inferno - roaring masts of smoke tossing and tangoing in the flickering glow of hungry flames. They licked the walls that held the fulcrum of the hellish blaze: the pantry door. A candle lay prone on the floor, knocked over by reckless rats or a careless sleepwalker, I will never know. I strained my eyes against the vicious heat to see the door's flamboyant facade once more, to see that life held fast in a moment, but I could make out little more than a fierce and blinding light. Gasping I turned and fumbled out of the house, falling to my knees, my bloodied fingers grasping at cool earth, as behind me the walls moaned, lamenting the kisses of flame. I could hear the oak slab pop and crack in the hellish halls of my forsaken home, but it wasn't until daybreak when the pantry door finally buckled and broke. The sun had not yet seen fit to peek over the horizon, and already it was an unusually hot morning, when with a momentous crash and a sickening belch, a life crumbled to ash in the twilit breaths of a new day's dawn.
