---
title: Drown
type: prose-poem
---

I burst from the water like a half-dying whale, gasping for gulps of air and screaming them back out, trying desperately to get the captain's attention over the rumbles of the charcoal sky. A wave crested and crashed upon me, pressing me back into the dark abyss below. There was a flash of sky, and my face felt the night air again, its darkness prickled with static, heavy and humid with the promise of a momentous storm. The sky cracked down its seams, jagged rivers of lightning splitting open the night and lighting the mountainous maws of the ocean. I spied the ship again, its spotlight painting broad strokes across the waves and searching... searching for me. I cried for help as loud as I could, but the sky roared with thunderous laughter, drowning my calls as another monstrous wave rose up and pushed me under. The world around me began to pound and hum with rain, and I surfaced again, swallowing mouthfuls of water and air. My eyes were blinded by a piercing light, and I coughed out a scream, fighting desperately to catch the captain's eye before the thunder could follow the lightning. My arms clawed at the heavens, though I saw nothing but that ceaseless light, when my hands were suddenly taken in another's. My body rose up from the water, the sea hanging heavy in my bones. I fell exhausted onto the wooden planks of the boat deck as the furious sea pitched back and forth. My eyes rolled in my head, the din of the storm screaming around us, and I could see the captain's face shrouded in a pool of seamless light. His mouth was moving but I couldn't hear his words. The rain fell hurriedly, filling my eyes, until there was nothing but water and light and the relentless clamor of the night.
